Design justification (including a brief discussion of at least one alternative you considered)

For the broad design of this program, I wanted the user to interact with the game in different ways. Keeping this in mind, I also wanted the user to visit at least four different places on Smith's campus, as I believed that would allow for a sufficient level of world exploration. However, creating a game with four extremley different approaches made it hard to connect the classes together and have the different areas of the game build on top of each other as the user progressed. Therefore, I decided to settle with creating two different ways for the user to interact with the game, that ultimately allowed for the two "levels" to build off of each other (as I also mention in my reflection). Primarily, I wanted the user to interact with the game through "brain teasers" right away, or during the "level 1" areas. These level 1 areas would also allow the user to choose something for their inventory, which would act as a way to un-restrict access to the level 2 areas (which would ask for the user to choose one of the inventory items, and if they choose the right one, would be succesful). 

For the actual code design, I know that I needed to ensure that the user visited the four different areas that I created in order to win. I also needed to make sure that the user couldn't get multiple things from the same place for their inventory, but they could still go back to the same place (and instead find nothing there). To do this, I made two significant design choices. 

Primarily, to make sure that the user visited all four locations, I made an array list that would automatically add the name of each location once the user visited (but not when they attempt to visit and fail, in the case of level 2 locations). I then created if statements for the methods associated with level 2 locations, that would first check whether this array list contained the names of all four locations. If it did, that would mean that the user visited all four locations, and so the game was done. If it didn't, it would direct the user to choose a location to visit. Secondly, I had to make sure that the user could go back to previous locations without adding more than one item from each location to their array list. I achieved this by once again utilizing their array list, but this time for their inventory. For the level 1 methods, I created if statements that would first check whether their items array list already had items from that location. If it did, I know they already visited that location, so I would re-direct them to a new message that told them there was nothing there. If it didn't, they would play the game as normal. I beleive this use of array lists was effective to keep track of user movement, and to allow users to go back to different places, since it was either unnoticable/ didn't complicate the user experience (in the case of the track_user array list) or melded with the existing function of the game (in the case of the item array list). Moreover, since I created while loops/ if statements that would ensure that only the listed options I provided could be chosen to add to the inventory (in the case of the items array list), there was no inherent issues in relying on the array list to keep track of wehther the user has been to that location. 

Secondly, I relied heavily on if/else statements to make sure that the user input matched acceptable answers, and to re-direct the user to different locations. Primarily (as mentioned above) I used a combination of while loops/ if and else statements to make sure the user only added an input that was based on the given options, and would be re-prompted if they didn't. This ensured that there weren't any issues in the user bypassing my arraylist checks. Secondly, these if/else statements were used to re-direct the user to different locations. This was done in combination with individual classes that corresponded with the location that the user was leaving from. This was done to ensure that the user couldn't move any further north, south, east, or west than the bounds of the map. I believe the while loops were effective in keeping the game progressing/ keep the integrity of the game's structure by making sure that the user could constantly be re-prompted to put in an input until it was appropriate. The if/else statements were incredibly effective in covering all the possible permutations of the path of the game (by checking multiple conditions based on the array list/ user input) which also allowed for multipe endings for the game depending on how succesful the user was (i.e- the user either wins or gets destroyed by a ghost). 

When creating this program, one alternative that I considered was creating seperate classes for each building that the user would go into. However, I found that this wasn't any different or more condensed than creating one centralized game class with multiple methods for each building. Moreover, by creating all the buildings in one game class, I could easily refer to the different array lists that I made without having to use super() on any of the classes. Another alternative I considered was creating a standarized class that the user could use to move between different buildings, with its use changing depending on the original location of the user. However, when creating this, I was having difficulty in translating this idea to actual code based on what we learned in class (i.e- are the ideas we used to construct the different classes in A6 useful in this case?). Achieving this was also difficult based on my current coding ability and within the alloted time I had to finish this project. 